all right so we got the layout that our
custom adapters going to use so it's now
time to create the adapter so you want
to open the project paint if it's closed
and right-click on the package in choose
new Kotlin file class we're going to
call this one feed adapter and I suggest
you change the kind to class just to
save us a little bit of typing click OK
now we want to extend the array adapter
class and that's so that we'll have all
the functionality of an array adapter
but we can then change some methods to
deal with the more complicated view that
we want to use so to make our class
extend the array adapter we use the we
just declare it to be of type array
adapter using the normal Kotlin syntax
so it's colon after feed adapter there's
a raid Apter DOM and operator and it's
going to be feed entry that brings up an
error and the error here is saying this
type has a constructor and thus must be
initialized here so basically it's
telling us that we need to have a
constructor let's just have a look at
that link that I posted earlier open a
browser and paste the link in now we're
interested in the public constructors
which is in this summary section here
and you can see that there's six
constructors so how do we know which one
we want to use well it turns out our
data is being stored in an ArrayList of
feed entry objects so the one that we
want is this one here the fifth one but
if that's not obvious we're going to
ignore it for now and see what happens
as you can see though all six
constructors need at least a context and
a resource you know the resources that
layout that we'll be using our list
under school record da XML layout so if
all six constructors need at least two
objects or those two objects will just
include them for now and then we'll pass
them to our adapter in its primary
constructive so let's go back go ahead
and add a constructor all right so what
we need to do then is come over here to
class feed adapter and in parentheses
context colon space context
and then we wanted to eval resource call
an int into parenthesis and still leave
the colon and then the arrayadapter feed
entry there now this actually still
gives us an error that the top has a
constructor on the speed must be
initialized here so we're going to pass
the two arguments that we get into our
primary constructor we do that by adding
parentheses on the end context resource
and that keeps things happy now we're
going to add some logging later to show
what's happening so let's add a tag for
that that's going to be private
Val tag is equal to feed adaptor now the
other thing we're going to have to do is
inflate the XML resource to create the
view now inflating an XML resource is
just the term used to describe taking
the XML representation and producing the
actual widgets from it so the XML in our
list underscore record XML file
describes the textview widgets and their
constraints font sizes etc so a layered
inflator takes that XML and inflates it
to produce the view object that can be
displayed on the screen now we give a
layout in fela from a context and we've
been given a context in the constructor
now rather than retrieve the inflator
each time we need it we'll store it so
that we can use it wherever we need it
so let's go ahead and do that with
private Val inflator equals there's
going to be layout inflator dot from
parenthesis context now there's that
context again the context are used
extensively throughout the android
framework especially when dealing with
the user interface now we saw a context
a couple of videos ago but what is a
context so let's just start by having a
look and seeing what the Google
documentation has to say about it
posted a link
now there's a couple of important things
on this page the first paragraph you can
see here explains that the context is an
interface to global information about an
application environment and that it
allows access to application specific
resources in classes so it basically
holds the state of the application or
activity while it's running now imagine
you're the manager of a multi screen
cinema complex when you decide to show a
particular film you need to know which
screen to projected onto so the screen
forms part of the film's context you
also need to know what time to show it
and also how much to charge for the
tickets so again these are part of the
context for that particular screening of
that particular film so without access
to the context you wouldn't know which
room or screen to show it in or what
time to show up so a context in Android
serves a similar purpose so it contains
information on the things about an
application or an activity that the
system needs in order to manage it and
it also provides access to the various
classes that are needed such as the lair
inflator that we'll be using
so let's like to have a quick look at
the documentation for the Loudoun flavor
class so a layout inflator
instead she AIT's a layout XML file into
its corresponding view objects which is
really just a fancy way of saying that
it creates all the view objects that's
described in the XML now the
documentation also states that you
shouldn't create your own instance of a
layout inflator instead you should use a
get layout inflator or get system
service to get a standard layout
inflator that's already hooked up to the
current context and correctly configured
for the device you're running on now if
we run our app on a tablet it may return
a different layout inflator than if we
ran it on a phone or an emulator we
don't care as long as we ask the context
to provide us with an inflator
everything works fine now the important
thing is that we need a context which we
can you know request things like the
layered inflator from do I'd use the
static
loud inflated upfront method we just go
back and have a look at that here on
Lauren 13 e we use that particular
function to get our live inflator and
then we passed the context as a
parameter so that just wraps a call to
get system service with the correct
parameters and there's no difference
between any of those three ways to get
an inflator from a context now switching
back to the documentation really briefly
for context again another interesting
thing is the list of known sub classes
because activity and app compat activity
both extend the basic context class we
can use the current instance of an
activity whenever we need to pass a
context to our function so you'll often
see this or main activity like this used
when calling a method that needs our
context so you can see here like
activity and app compat activity are
both subclasses alright so moving on
we'll go back to the Android studio code
again so we've got a class that extends
the array adapter there to make it work
we just need to override two functions
of the base class
now when the ListView Scrolls items off
the screen it'll ask its adapter for a
new view to display and it does this by
calling the get view method so that's
the first method that we need to
override now the ListView also needs to
know how many items there are so it
knows things like how to represent the
scroll bar to indicate how far through
the list that you've scrolled you have
to get the number of items it uses the
get count method you know there are
other methods that so we can override if
we need to further customize the adapter
but these two are all we actually need
at this stage but these two are all that
are actually required so I'm going to
get to into a studio to override those
to generate the basic functions for us
so it's basically the get view and get
count so I'm going to select both of
those and click on OK
and you can see that both being over it
another screen deal so starting off the
get camp method is going to be pretty
easy because we just need to return the
number of items in our list so we come
back to that to get killed and we'll all
return applications dot size now that
would work except we don't have a list
now we obviously need one as it's our
list of feed entry objects that will
provide the data to display so going
back to the documentation on the array
adapter let's have another look at these
constructors so the for the last four
constructors all will show a final
parameter that's either an array or a
list you can see these ones here the tee
left right square brackets are objects
or at least as you can see there it's
either an array or a list now we're
using an ArrayList which is a specific
implementation of the list so the
constructor we're interested in here is
really this fifth one so therefore we
need to modify our class primary
constructor so we can pass into the
ArrayList that's going to contain our
data let's go back to a head raj studio
and make it change here so at the moment
we've got class feed adapter context to
context val resource int so let's go
ahead and change that so I'm going to
use the next one and we're gonna add
another argument which is going to be
comma Val applications : there's going
to be lists diamond operator feed entry
lister feed entry objects and you saw
that the arrow then disappears on line
18 now that time we've correctly
specified that now if you're not sure
which constructor you need in situations
like this start off with the minimum
unless you continue writing the code
you'll spot where you need to use a
different one just like we did here and
then you add that and so on and so forth
okay now if you don't override the get
count method the ListView won't display
any records it needs to know how many
items there are so theythey can create
the list of rows so if you create an
adapter and just get a blank ListView
check to make sure that you've provided
the correct count of the items in the
get count method and you can see that
we've done that here the line 18 all
right say the get view
methods called by the ListView every
time it wants another item to display so
let's go through a very naive
implementation to get started so we've
got something to work on
I'm gonna get rid of the super don't get
view we could do something like Val view
equals inflator dot inflate resource
parrot bowls and we'll just go through
this code first and then talk about it
Val TV name : text view is equal to u
dot followed view by ID ID ID dot TV
name and we can just take a copy of that
and do that for the other two fields so
we also got the TV artists in an auto TV
summary
artists we could do something like vowel
current app equals applications position
then we could do TV name dot text equals
current app name not sure the copying
pasting is any quicker than just typing
it put an artist summary summary artists
they return view view so that's a very
naive implementation and it's also not
very efficient because we're creating a
new view every time and having to call
find B by ID for each of the text view
widgets now we're going to modify this
soon but for now we'll just get it
working now notice that Android studio
is suggesting over here that we should
use the view holder pattern so that's
what we're going to do later all right
so what are we done here though well the
function starts off by creating a view
we're doing that on line 23 it does that
by inflating the layout resource and it
uses the layered inflator that we
created from the context in the
constructor so then finds the three text
few widgets using the final view by ID
Long's 25 through 27
now when the ListView calls this getview
method it tells it the position of the
item it needs to display in the position
parameter and that's this parameter here
int that's been passed to this function
so we retrieve the object at that
position
you know applications list down here on
line 29 then we set the name and the
artist and the summaries on love 31 30
33 into the corresponding textview so
once that's done we're just returning
the view on line 35 and that's actually
our adapter finish now there are a
couple of things that we should change
and we can see that Android studio has
flagged as someone flagged up some
warnings on the right hand side and we
showed one of those on the screen you
know strategy this version doesn't put a
tick in the margin for
applications parameter and you can see
here that it does underlie that use in
little squiggle their property
applications can be private
now the resource can be private as well
so we're gonna change both of those and
that's going to make the loan a little
bit long so I'm going to split it up so
let's go ahead and do that so you've got
the context now I'm going to change it
before the Val for the resource I'm
going to put private it also put a
private for the application as well the
applications object and let's put that
on the next line they're going to press
ENTER there so we can see what we're
doing a bit better there and put another
space there the next morning we've got
over here is the fact that all the class
FINA depth is never used but also the
property tag is never used well there's
no logging at the moment logging when
these two functions are called will make
it much easier to see what's going on
and so therefore let's do that so let's
actually add some code for that so
firstly for the getcount we'll put a log
D or log D I should say and it's gonna
be tag and we'll put double quotes get
count called and we'll also do the same
for what I'll get view it'll do that
that's the first line as well and it'll
get count opposites let me get view
called and then obviously gets rid of
one of the warnings nail because tag is
being used but that me enough to get it
working now you can look at some of
those other warnings later let's
actually see if our adapter works so all
we should have to do is change the
adapter that we creating the on post
method of the download data class to use
this new one so let's go and go ahead
and do that so back in main activity you
know download data on posts I execute
we've got two Val past applications then
we could have movie go down we've got
our array adapter code here so what I'm
going to do is comment out these two
lines because that's how we roll what
adapter we're going to use a new one so
I'm going to talk Val feed adapter
is equal to feed adapter and we need to
pass some arguments the first one's
going to be prop context then we need
our layout dot just Thomas in underscore
record and then we need pars
applications dot applications which is
our list of feed entry objects then we
need property list view dot adapter
equals feed adapter this time all right
so let's actually try running that to
see that it works
all right so there's our map running and
you can see that it's looking a lot more
impressive now than what it did look
like before and obviously we can scroll
it up and down but what I'll do this
videos got quite long so I'm going to
stop the video here into the next one
what we'll do is we'll look at making
our feed adapter more efficient see you
in the next video